Thank you for joining us for this update
on the legal situation in Russia.
Our report will discuss
the latest developments
after an important court decision
on January 16, 2017.
For some time,
the Russian government has claimed
that Jehovah’s Witnesses are “extremists.”
Last year, the Prosecutor General
issued a warning for extremist activity
against the Administrative Center
of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia,
which is our branch office.
We appealed that warning,
as we have not been engaged
in any extremist activity.
But on January 16 of this year,
the Moscow City Court
dismissed that appeal.
The three-judge panel rejected
all arguments filed by our attorneys
and rendered its decision
after a ten-minute recess.
Now, we don’t know
what the implications
of the decision will be.
But we do know that in the past
when warnings have been issued in Russia
against some of our local entities,
our property has later been seized.
Despite the outcome,
the January 16 court hearing
provided a great witness.
Our representatives
were given the opportunity
to present evidence showing
that certain Russian officials
have been running a campaign
of painting us as
an “extremist” organization.
Additionally,
our brothers highlighted the peace
that exists among Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We now have
Brother Sergey Cherepanov with us
live from the Administrative
Center in Russia.
Now, Sergey,
what does this recent
court decision really mean?
What the government chooses to do now,
we don’t know.
But what we do know is that our brothers
will continue worshipping Jehovah.
They will go to the meetings;
they will go in the field ministry
and keep up with their spiritual routine.
Whatever the future may bring,
we know that worshipping Jehovah
will continue in Russia.
And, of course,
we have done everything possible,
and we will continue doing so
—that is, to legally defend our right
to worship Jehovah freely in Russia.
But we have to understand
that we cannot expect
perfect justice in this world of injustice.
Well, considering
the groundless accusations
that are being made
against Jehovah’s people in Russia,
how did the brothers and sisters react?
Are they bitter?
No, not at all.
While our brothers continue to be
in subjection to the authorities,
we respect the authorities
and we understand
that not all of them are against us.
But just like Paul admonished
in his first letter to Timothy 2:1, 2,
we pray for them so that they will
understand the nature of our work
and we would be able to continue our
“calm and quiet life with complete
godly devotion.”
That’s a wonderful attitude to have.
What is the message
that the brothers and sisters in Russia
would like to convey
to our worldwide brotherhood?
Well, brothers, you don’t need to be
overly worried about us,
but please keep us in your prayers.
We certainly will, Sergey,
and please convey our love
to all the brothers and sisters
there in Russia.
We will.
Thank you very much.
Although the legal case
is currently focused
on the Administrative Center in Russia,
how did we get to where we are today?
To understand the background,
we need to go back to 2015
when a city court ruled on allegations
against Jehovah’s Witnesses
in the city of Taganrog, Russia.
On November 30, 2015,
the Taganrog City Court
convicted 16 Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and in March of the next year,
the Rostov Regional Court
confirmed this decision.
I was hoping that the arguments
by the defense and statements of the accused
would be heard by the Judicial Chamber
and we would be excused,
but neither were heard at that time.
So, on what are the charges
of extremism based?
The first step taken by the authorities
was to get several publications
of Jehovah’s Witnesses added
to the Federal List of Extremist Materials.
It means that importing
these publications into the country,
storing them in their places of worship,
and distributing them was prohibited.
The basic reasons to ban these publications
were based on statements which alleged
that they incite religious discord
by pointing out the superiority
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
over all other religions.
Following that logic,
the courts have pronounced as extremist
over 80 publications of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and their official website.
Not surprisingly,
many specialists in the field of human rights
consider the court decisions erroneous.
If I say that my faith is the right one,
it is the only true religion,
what would that mean?
Is it advocating exclusivity?
or inferiority? or supremacy?
No, of course not!
Jehovah’s Witnesses
stopped using these publications
and removed them
from their places of worship.
Despite this,
the authorities moved on
to the second stage of their persecution.
For several years,
law enforcement officers
have repeatedly used
the following scenario:
A third party plants banned literature
at the place of worship
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
A few minutes later,
police officers and prosecutors show up
to inspect and search the building and,
as if by chance, find planted publications.
And all this is done just to accuse believers
of extremism and to ban their activity.
As a result of such literature plantings,
the authorities have succeeded
in liquidating seven local entities
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
in different cities of Russia.
This was the third step
of the persecution.
It is important to understand
that a Local Religious Organization
of Jehovah’s Witnesses, or LRO,
is not the same thing as a congregation
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
An LRO includes 10-15 believers
and has certain rights,
such as to own and maintain
a religious building.
The actual activities
relating to their worship
is carried out by the believers,
independently of the LRO.
And at last the authorities
moved on to their main goal.
With reference to the fact
that local entities had been banned,
the prosecutor’s office
now expressed its readiness
to ban the headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia.
Prior to this,
the prosecutor’s office had already
initiated several inspections.
Then, in 2013,
a team of approximately 60 officials
turned up at the Administrative Center
to inspect it.
However, despite all their efforts,
nothing unlawful was found.
Such events remind
many human rights advocates
of the days of religious repression
in the past.
I’ve known about Jehovah’s Witnesses
for many years.
During Soviet times,
they were persecuted for their faith
and received long sentences
in prison camps.
They would go to prison for their faith.
Such sincere feelings call for respect.
Heartfelt faith excludes extremism.
Although Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia
are going through certain difficulties,
today our brothers and sisters
continue to serve Jehovah
with great joy and zeal.
We are also receiving words of support
from our brothers and sisters
all around the world.
During this difficult time of persecution,
I have received a lot of help
from our brothers and sisters.
Recently, one brother from New Zealand
wrote that his 6-year-old son
is praying for me every night.
It was a great encouragement.
And, of course, we remember one family
who sent us greetings from France
—nine people,
seven of them were children.
That’s something!
My relationship with Jehovah
is only getting stronger through all of this.
During any trial,
I try to get to know him better
—understand him—
and it strengthens our relationship.
Brothers, endure difficulties,
stand firm in the faith,
and blessings from Jehovah will come!
Our brothers in Russia have gone
through a lot in the past few years.
King Hezekiah experienced
something similar,
as you may remember from last year’s
regional convention drama.
Jehovah said at Isaiah 30:15:
“Your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
Now, Hezekiah trusted in Jehovah,
and Jehovah proved to be with him.
But how can we remain calm
when negative things take place
around us?
Well, first, we trust that Jehovah
will care for us
no matter what happens.
We know that he’s pleased
by our faith and courage.
Second,
we know that all that we are asking for
is to be able to worship Jehovah
in love and peace.
Our neutral, peace-loving stand
is known around the world.
And third,
our worldwide brotherhood stands with us.
Brothers and sisters in Russia,
your trust in Jehovah is a great example
for all of us to imitate.
Please know that we are praying
in your behalf
because we love you very much.
There’s no doubt that Jehovah
is on your side,
and he will continue to guide
and protect you.
This is JW Broadcasting
from the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.